JAKE: Where are we actually--
PAUL: OK, glad you
asked, because I did
think a little bit further than
you, since you started driving
and you have no idea
where you're going.
I thought, since we went
to the boozer in England,
we could, this time,
continue the trend,
but go to a vineyard.
JAKE: Ooh, that's--
PAUL: Keep it classy.
See now, look at this.
Right, I kind of feel
like, yeah, all right,
like we did the pub
before, back in England,
but I do think this has
a slightly better view.
JAKE: How qualified do you feel?
PAUL: Not at all.
JAKE: Yeah.
PAUL: I know you're
going through this.
I know it's red, or it's
a clearish kind of color.
JAKE: It's nice,
and it's not nice.
It's one of those.
Very binary with
my wine tasting.
PAUL: And I have an upper limit
of about five pounds, or $8.
And if it's more than that,
it's probably not worth it.
JAKE: Anyway.
PAUL: Right.
So since we're here--
JAKE: Yes.
PAUL: --we tend to
talk about the web.
And today, I think,
is no different.
I want to talk about
libraries and frameworks.
JAKE: Ah.
Yes, because you're not big
on the frameworks, are you?
PAUL: No, and neither
are you, honestly.
JAKE: On the other hand, I
am not big on the frameworks.
PAUL: Yeah, so I don't
think there is going
to be much of an argument.
But I do want to talk about
it, because it bothers me
that I perceive that the
default state of developers
is, I've got a blank page here,
how am I going to fill it out?
Ah, I need a framework.
Which one do I use?
JAKE: That is a problem I have
with frameworks, that they have
a way of starting projects.
Like, there's an expectation
to use them from the offset.
And I think if you're thinking,
what combination of frameworks
should I use to render
this blank page,
then I think something
has gone wrong.
PAUL: Gone wrong.
JAKE: Yeah.
For me, it's entirely from
a performance point of view.
PAUL: Oh.
JAKE: Well, no,
it's not, actually.
OK, step one, performance.
If your page has to
load a ton of JavaScript
in order to make a request
for the actual data it's
going to display,
You've lost performance.
And you can sort of say,
oh, but next time it's
going to be cached.
It might not be.
You might have changed the
code, busted the cache.
PAUL: And it's an
assumption that somebody's
going to come back again.
Right?
Well it--
JAKE: It's your
goal, I would say.
PAUL: It's your
goal, but you don't
know that somebody's going to.
It's like paying a big hefty
tax on the assumption you're
going to get a repeat view.
JAKE: That's true.
PAUL: And you might not.
You might not.
JAKE: Yep.
And stuff falls out of
the cache all the time.
PAUL: Yeah, exactly.
JAKE: Not the service
worker cache, though.
PAUL: Oh, you and
service worker.
Here we go again!
JAKE: Service worker.
PAUL: Dun dun dun.
One trick pony, Jake Archibald.
JAKE: All right, come
on, it's got a cache,
you can rely on it.
PAUL: OK, performance,
that notwithstanding,
I think for me, it's about
code ownership somehow.
It's about a level of trust
that I don't necessarily feel.
And what I want to
do is, I want to be
able to feel like my application
code is the thing that's
running.
That I'm not running
through something else,
that I don't
necessarily understand.
JAKE: Well, running
through something else
is fine, because that's
what a library is, right?
You've got--
PAUL: No.
JAKE: You've got a
hold of both ends,
and you're running
through bits of library
that you don't understand.
PAUL: Yep.
JAKE: But that's fine,
because if one of them
starts misbehaving, rip it
out, either code it yourself,
or find a replacement library.
PAUL: Yes.
But when you're going
through something else, to--
JAKE: Well, you're
in something else,
I think, with a framework.
And the framework, it
will give you scraps.
PAUL: (IN A HIGH VOICE) Please,
sir, can I have some more?
I'd like to work with
this application.
JAKE: (IN A HIGH VOICE) Yes, can
you please send this data over
here?
PAUL: (IN A LOW VOICE) More?
Pfft.
Get out.
JAKE: But then, you're
sat in a tiny bubble
of the overall application
with a framework.
And I feel that to get the
most out of a framework,
you need to understand how
the framework is built.
And these frameworks are huge.
So it's really
difficult to do that.
PAUL: They are.
I actually feel-- and
maybe this is wrong--
but it feels to me like it's
kind of, the decision is
an ergonomics one.
Like a developer's
saying, my ergonomics
trumps the user's requirements.
I want to feel like
my job is easy,
and what the user gets
is what the user gets.
And my whole approach is
very much the other way.
I'd rather go the extra
mile and all my users
benefit than my
life is a bit easier
and I'll take some of
the bad performance,
or the tacks of
using that framework.
So I don't think that
frameworks are inherently evil
and to be avoided.
But I think you want to be
able to transition to one
and say, yeah, now it feels
like we're getting to the point
where we're going
to reinvent that.
And I think you can
only do that when
you've got to a certain
point with the build.
JAKE: So for you, it's start
light, start with libraries,
as and when you
need them, and then
make the jump to frameworks
only if you have to.
PAUL: Agreed.
[MUSIC PLAYING]